Alvaro, tell us how it all started,
where the idea came from, how you
took the first steps.
Well, because like everything in this
life the planets aligned and
many things happened, and apart
we were at the right time, prepared,
and the market demanded it.
All these things, until they happen,
there is really no success in
any business.
I’ll tell you a little anecdote,
because it was very interesting.
The Plus Account came from a
dentist who ordered us a program
and didn’t like it.
He commissioned us a accounting
program for his business, as a dentist,
and when we delivered it to
him he didn’t like it.
And then, from that accounting
core that emerged, from this
dentist, we started working
on a accounting program.
And at that moment the idea came,
and the idea was, I as his engineer,
always all mathematically, came
from an equation in which you
said, we sell 500 programs
to 300,000 pessets, I am talking
about those when we lived
in pessets, we sold 500 programs
to 300,000 pessets.
What happens if we
change the equation?
And we sell 300,000 programs for 500 pesetas.
The final sum is the same, but
the formula is completely
different.
That idea came up one night between
my partner and me, and that
was exactly what we did.
What we did is that a product that
cost at that time 300,000 pesetas,
because I don’t know, we are
talking at best of 8000 euros
today, because we sold
it to 4.950 pesetas.
And then, instead of selling 500
products, the idea was to sell
100,000 products.
That idea arose in our head, as they
arise in entrepreneurs of these ideas
that invade you and your life disappears,
you just see that.
And then, at the moment that idea
came up, there was nothing else
in our lives.
There was no family, there was nothing.
We are working to transform
this equation.
The first thing we said was, how
can we sell 300,000 products of
a thing that is not massive?
So, let’s see, where
do people go every day?
What is the usual sales channel?
The newspaper kiosks.
We said, the newspapers
are our point of sale.
Never in his life had he sold
a soba in the newspaper kiosks.
What can we sell in the
newspaper kiosks?
At what price can we sell it?
We went to a newspaper kiosk,
we went to several newspaper kiosks
and the most expensive that was
sold, I will continue to talk about
pessetas, because it was, I don't
know, an encyclopedia that cost 500
pessetas.
What is happening?
We made the channel because
the margin we gave the kiosk was
so big that selling a Plus account
earned the same as selling
all the newspapers, the country
or the world of the day.
All those combinations
arose, we mortgaged our houses,
of course, to make a television
advertising campaign, because
as it was massive, then
I’m telling you a little about
how it arose.
We made a television campaign, we
recorded an ad with our friends
because we logically didn’t
have money, but of course, we had
to spend ads on television, that
that cost a lot of money, for
that we had to mortgage the
houses because the media wholesalers
didn’t trust, these lords,
who are they?
We made a campaign, we blisted, we
blisted with three and a half and
five and a quarter disquets, prehistoric
things for today, we prepared it,
we put it on the channels,
we distributed it and finally
we sold four million copies
in no way how many years.
But I explained a little what was
the key to success, the key was
the change of equation, the
market was mature, I was waiting
for a massive solution, it
was a good product, it had
technical support, then people
didn’t notice they didn’t know what
that product was for, they
called by phone and there was
a person behind him who answered.
All these components together that
when you analyze them
individually are not so important,
but when you see them in the
concept you realize that we
had been able to suit the needs
of the demand that there was
exactly at that time.
And well, because it started, this
was just to give you an anecdote,
Borja, we had not launched
the advertisement and sold all
the products we had placed.
And I saw myself watching the TV that
the ad was coming out and there were
no products, because they had already
sold all.
And to get back back in the ball cost
us more time than the campaign lasted,
that is, a thing already crazy,
but well, so was the ball.
So what happens?
We did not get mad at that moment
and what we did was reinvest
all that amount of money that
came into us every day, create
a support, a service that would
support all that success and
that was the key to maintenance.
That is, we did not see it
really as a ballot, we saw
it as we were meeting the
needs that the Spanish society
in SMEs was demanding.
We had a problem and it was that every
three months the buildings
were getting small.
I remember in the Pradillo street,
behind the world, we picked up
a 2,000-meter building and
we said, and how long will
this last?
I said, man, this takes us five or ten
years.
In six months we sold it and went
to one of 5,000 meters, then to
one of 10,000 meters, because
our call centers, of course,
we received 15,000 calls
a day.
We were the only ones in Spain
that collapsed the Spanish
telephone lines when there was
the change of the 2,000.
You remember that it seemed like everything
was going to stop because computers
were changing.
At that time, we had over
400,000 customers in Spain.
They decided to call us almost
all at once and we collapsed
the Spanish phone nodes.
He called us and said, What’
s going on?
We don’t have enough lines for all
the people who are trying to
get into you.
This has not only stopped with
Operation Triumph and with you.
So what you imagine.
So, back a little to your question,
it was a series of circumstances
in which we were able to
meet what the market demanded
at that time.